- The purpose of AnQstGen is to use the AnQst-Spec-DSL as input for generation of an high-performance, efficient, and typesafe bridge between frontend and backend, the actual implementation and format of the bridge is by design NOT guaranteed to be stable between revisions of AnQst (not even minor version), only the set of artifacts generated together by the same invokation of `anqst build` is expected to work together.

- By convention, any artifact produced by one invocation of "anqst build" cannot be used against any artifact produced by another invocation, this is, by design, the inverse concept of "OpenAPI" in that OpenAPI attempts to freeze the wire-format. AnQst guarantees to freeze the generated type delcaration and structures (same AnQst-Spec / Syntax = Same generated typescript/c++ types/interfaces/classes/structs/methods/public-api), while leaving the wire-format opaque and irrelevant to the user of the artifacts produced by AnQst. This is an explicit design and architecture choice, a deliberate inversion the "keep it compatible" tradition seen in OpenAPI and other frameworkd, and it allows many zero-overhead operations where other frameworks are forced to do runtime checks. But with AnQst, the only contract is the implicit, zero-overhead contract between the code generated by each particular invocation of `anqst build`, the explicit and stable interface is thus reduced to the externally visible: The types, structs, membernames, and DSL langauge syntax exposed to users (thus, by design, two subsequent runs of `anqst build` on the same AnQst-Spec could in theory produce two wildy different and incompatible wire-formats, but the public methods/members/types/structs/interfaces/services that are generated are identical), the implication is that, by convention only, a project using AnQst must always build frontends and backends at the same time, it is simply not supported or guaranteed to work, to build the frontend and then build the backend, they must be build together, but the AnQst tool, protocol and generated artifacts do NOT carry any responsibility nor introduce any code or complexity to determine this, it is purely on the users of anqst to integrate it correctly into their build pipeline. This is again pure convention with nothing in AnQst to ensure it or guard against discrepancies.

- For every type in the AnQst.Type enum ( AnQst-Spec-DSL.d.ts:237-286 ) there there exists a comprehensive generator support that ensures that generation of the most performant and efficient serialization/deserialization for each specific type.

- AnQstGen has total knowledge of all static and dynamic structures already before it begins generating the code, this proves that the generated frontends and backends have full and exact of all structures and fields that will be transported, and exactly where and how they are provided and consumed. Therefore the generated code contains no runtime coordination, and no feature/capability/version information exchange.

- AnQstGen generates codecs type reachable through types visible in an AnQst-Spec, not simply their member variables, each codec is stand-alone and optimal for encoding and decoding that particular type, with calls other generated codecs and no avoidable run-time structural overhead from conserving the structure inside the binary blob being produced.
Each individual codec produces the most minimal value that can be carried represented by JSON (string, array, object (object is _ONLY_ allowed when it needed for a truly dynamic type, it is never a fallback, it is _NEVER_ used for a strongly typed field or structure)).
Only the invocation of QWebChannel causes a QJsonObject to be created, with a single, toplevel key: "d" (for Data), The type of data is that which is most ideal for transporting the type.
Strings are packed together in an array of strings (since both sides of the generated codec know their position in the array, their actual key/placement within the structure is irrelevant for the wire-format). (This also implies that if a structure contains another structure, the codec for that type must not simply pass the payload of the subelement to the substructure codec since that would result in isolation and therefore inefficient packing/unpacking and unneeded method calls, a suggestion is to have off-the-shelf super-optimized factories for each base-type (AnQst.Types<TYPE>) and generate optimal packing/unpacking codecs for each top-level structure (that is, one single codec per type, that codec packs/unpacks the entirety of the type-graph for its specific type and inlines/calls only the codecs for base-types, avoiding structural- and call- overhead entirely). For numbers, booleans and binary data,the codec will always use base93, while strings are always emitted either a naked value containing the string (not in an object, not in an array) or when there are more strings in the type-graph, a single array containing all strings in the graph for that particular type.

- The purpose of the type codecs (both those for base-types which are built into AnQstGen, and those generated by AnQstGen itself) is to allow efficient and languge-appropriate transport of the data declared in the an AnQst-Spec between frontend and backend, so, while it is allowed to use the same kind of wire-format, it is an important detail, that the entire reason for emitting these is not simply to enable the data to be transported via JSON, but it is to guarantee that the data passed between frontend and backend, regardless of their implementation language, is usable and correct on the other end. For example, for the 64 bit types, those are represented as BigInt in javascript, and multiple 64 bit types exist in C++, which is why there is both a BigInt -> C++ along with the AnQst.Type<64 bit wide types>, to allow the AnQst users to determine how the data is represented on both ends. It's also why javascript "number" defaults to c++ double, and why it is also possible to declare a specific, smaller width.
- The purpose of type codecs is NEVER to do type-checking, integrity checking or usage-verification, codes MUST assume that input and output data is correct and intact.

- AnQstGen generation can be as compute heavy as needed in order to produce the best result.
- AnQstGen itself needs to generate very efficient and exact code, and this always takes first priority over simplicity or performance of AnQstGen itself.
- AnQstGen runtime performance (when AnQstGen build is actually running) is lowest priority, when considering an implementation which is simpler to reason about, it is selected over one which is more performant at generation-time. (this is opposite for the expectation of the actually generated code, which must be exact, correct, performant and optimal).
Accept criteria for codec efficiency, an encoder for any type representable by AnQst-Spec-DSL emits:
- Best case: a single string (which may be base93 or a JSON string, but this cannot be determined from the emission, the decoder knows which one it is, so it does not matter)
- Worst case: a single array of strings (which may be a mix of native JSON string(s) and base93 encoded binary blobs, again, it cannot be determined by examining the emission alone, and that does not matter since the decoder for that type knows).
- Invalid: The type is neither a single string, or an array of at least two allowed items (string/object).
- Invalid in particular: The array contains subarrays, showing that another codec was used below).
- Exception: Where the AnQst-Spec explicitely specifies a truly dynamic type to be used, an Object containing ONLY allowed members may be emitted, either as the only item, or as a member of the array.
- Codec implication: Generated codecs cannot rely on other codecs to serialize their members as those other codecs are also allowed to output an array. This is intentional. When a codec serializes actual arrays, they must still conform to this, by inlining the array data into their output array, they may chose the most efficient method to do this based on the type of array, if the length is known, they do not need any additional information since both encoder and decoder knows that length, if the length is not know but there is no other data, they can chose to simply serialize the elements and add them to their one allowed output array, if they have only one variable length array, they can select to append any elements it might have as the last elements of their array by convention, and if they have multiple, vbariable length arrays, they can select to encode the length as an integer before the first element of that array. Determining the shape of the that encoder and decoder in lock-step may make it simpler to keep them in sync.
- DSL Implication: The AnQst-Spec-DSL must not allow declaration of non-JSON-native types as members of truly dynamic types.

- The generator NEVER "falls back" on "general" conversion, only for structures explicitely declared as dynamic by the AnQst-Spec does it use a (still highly optimized, high-performance, minimal-overhead) codec, and when it does, it does it for the smallest-possible subset (for example, explicitely dynamic members) and only for a top-level argument or return value if that type is explicitely fully dynamic (both dynamic members and top-level items are considered rare and exceptional). The generator never does "best effort" conversion or generation, if coherent, consistent, exact and correct types+codecs+methods cannot be generated for all frontends and backends supported by AnQst (not simply those enabled by the particular project) then the generator must not emit any code at all, but instead write a detailed and informative error message with sufficient plain-language explaination of exactly what went wrong, where, and how, including technical details about the particular failure.